-------------Disunited_Nations-------------

Most countries and companies are not prepared for the world Peter Zeihan says we’re already living in. 

For decades, America’s allies have depended on its might for their economic and physical security. 
But as a new age of American isolationism dawns, the results will surprise everyone. 
In Disunited Nations, geopolitical strategist Peter Zeihan presents a series of counterintuitive arguments about the future of a world 
where TRADE AGREEMENTS ARE COMING APART and INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ARE LOSING THEIR POWER. 

Germany will decline as the most powerful country in Europe, with France taking its place. 
Every country should prepare for the COLLAPSE OF CHINA, not North Korea. 
We are already seeing, as Zeihan predicts, a SHIFT IN OUTLOOK ON THE MIDDLE EAST: It is NO LONGER IRAN that is the region’s most dangerous threat, but SAUDI ARABIA. 
The world has gotten so accustomed to the “normal” of an AMERICAN-DOMINATED ORDER that we have all forgotten the HISTORICAL NORM: 
SEVERAL SMALLER, COMPETING POWERS And economic systems throughout Europe and Asia. 

AMERICA isn’t the only nation stepping back from the international system. 
From BRAZIL to GREAT BRITAIN to RUSSIA, leaders are deciding that EVEN if plenty of countries lose in the growing DISUNITED CHAOS, their NATIONS WILL BENEFIT. 
The world isn’t falling apart—IT’S BEING PUSHED APART. 
The COUNTRIES and BUSINESSES prepared for this new EVERY-COUNTRY-FOR-ITSELF ethic are those that WILL PREVAIL; 
those shackled to the status quo will find themselves lost in the new world disorder.

Smart, interesting, and essential reading, 
Disunited Nations is a sure-to-be-controversial guidebook that analyzes the EMERGING SHIFTS and RESULTING PROBLEMS that will arise in the NEXT TWO DECADES. 
We are entering a PERIOD OF CHAOS, and no political or corporate leader can ignore Zeihan’s insights or his message if they want to SURVIVE AND THRIVE in this UNCERTAIN NEW TIME.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
p5-6
https://www.herodote.net/Abrege_d_histoire_chinoise-synthese-409-343.php
-------America Model
CARROT 1: ensure PHYSICAL security for all
CARROT 2: ensure MARITIME security for all
CARROT 3: offer UNFETTERED MARKET access (sans entrave)
CARROT 4: float a GLOBAL currency

----Britain Model
STICK 1: an unassailable STRATEGIC POSITION
STICK 2: a potent, flexible NAVY
STICK 3: a massive TECHNOLOGICAL advantage

----the REALITY of CHINA
The real problem is that China CANNOT build and maintain 
	a large,OUTWARD-LOOKING navy 
and a huge DEFENSIVE NAVY 
and a huge AIR force 
and a huge INTERNAL security force 
and a huge ARMY 
and a huge INTELLIGENCE system
and a huge SPECIAL FORCES system 
and global DEPLOYMENT capability 
at the SAME TIME.

----how to be a successful country
1. TERRITORIAL VIABILITY (Viable home territories, with usable lands and defensible borders) p65
	INTERNAL WATER TRANSPORT
		ddd
	TEMPERATE CLIMATE ZONES
		ddd
	FRONTIERS (USA_69.JPG,china_74.JPG)
		Flat-out, the Americans have both the RICHEST TERRITORIES in the world as well as the most SECURABLE.
2. AGRICULTURAL CAPACITY (A reliable food supply) 75
	fff
3. DEMOGRAPHIC STRUCTURE (A sustainable population structure) p80
	fff
4. ENERGY ACCESS (Access to a stable mix of energy inputs to participate in modern life) p90
	fff

--------China’s Report Card (p102)			Overhyped
--------Japan’s Report Card (p 130)			Jefe
--------Russia’s Report Card (p 153)		Panicked
--------Germany’s Report Card (p 173)		Outdated
--------France’s Report Card (p 205)		Finally!
--------Iran’s Report Card (p 219)			Winner?
--------Saudi Arabia’s Report Card (p 241)	Arsonist (pyromane)
--------Turkey’s Report Card (p 271)		Returned
--------Brazil’s Report Card (p 295)		Nuts
--------Argentina’s Report Card (p 316)		Mulligan (deuxième chance)


BORDERS,RESOURCES,DEMOGRAPHY,MILITARY MIGHT,ECONOMY,OUTLOOK
------------------------------------------------China’s Report Card (p102)
BORDERS: 
Vast emptiness to the west
, jungles to the south
, nuclear powers to the north and southwest
, and superior maritime powers to the east.
China doesn’t so much secure its borders as manage them the best it can.

RESOURCES: 
China didn’t get really serious about industrializing until the 1970s
, so its local resources were all tapped more or less at once.
That served China well . . . until now. 
China is on the verge of running out—of everything.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Oy!Breakneck urbanization combined with Maoist population controls gutted the Chinese birthrate for decades. 
The one bright spot is that China’s demographics are not the worst in the world.Yet.

MILITARY MIGHT: China is BIG and its military is modernizing quickly
, but that doesn’t mean its military is well suited to the challenges of today.Or tomorrow.

ECONOMY: 
The Chinese system is both highly leveraged and highly dependent upon international trends it cannot shape or preserve. 
Every system that has followed China’s path has crashed. So too will China.

OUTLOOK: 
Only Russia has worse relations with its neighbors. 
When the Order ends, everything that has made China successful will end with it and no one will reach out with a helping hand.

IN A WORD: Overhyped.


------------------------------------------------Japan’s Report Card (p 130)
BORDERS: 
Japan’s island geography provides covetable standoff distance from the region’s major land power, China. 
But the archipelagic nature of Japan has made intraregional connectivity costly and difficult.

RESOURCES: 
The most resource-poor of the world’s major powers, Japan is also located at the very end of several major supply lines. 
The Japanese import nearly all their energy. No potent navy, no modernized Japan.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
It’s not just the monarchy of Japan that’s the world’s oldest.Japan’s population is also aging, with 28 percent over age sixty-five.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
On paper, Japan doesn’t have a military. 
In reality, they are close training partners with the United States military and possess the most capable indigenous navy in Asia, arguably the second best in the world.

ECONOMY: 
Japan was once one of the most globally exposed industrial economies
, but Japan has been in the rare position of having the capital to face its challenges head-on. 
The Japanese have invested heavily in automation to offset a shrinking labor pool, and have moved much of their supply chains offshore.

OUTLOOK: 
The Japanese have 
the capital
, navy
, technological know-how
,and geographic insulation 
to step into the space left by a retreating United States better than any other regional power. 
They also don’t have a choice.

IN A WORD: Jefe.

------------------------------------------------Russia’s Report Card (p 153)
BORDERS: 
Russia’s borders are long and impossible to defend
, prompting the Russians to endlessly expand outward until they hit significant geographic or military resistance.

RESOURCES: 
Russia is a huge producer of oil and natural gas
, and its vast geographies sustain massive mining and even more massive grain production. 
Much of this activity is seasonal; most Russian territory vacillates between frozen and swampy.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
The horrific Soviet legacy and the post-Soviet birthrate collapse 
have fused with skyrocketing mortality fueled by alcoholism,heart disease, violence, tuberculosis, and HIV. 
Russia is suffering through a complete, multivector, unstoppable demographic collapse.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Russia still invests heavily in defense, though much of the hardware is showing its age. 
Thirty-plus-year-old submarines and an aircraft carrier that habitually catches fire
, but impressive tanks and aircraft and the world’s largest nuclear arsenal—Russia’s kit may be old, but it still packs a punch.

ECONOMY: 
Sanctions and an overreliance on commodity exports have made Russia struggle since the Soviet fall
, but Russian geography never supported a successful, industrialized economy.

OUTLOOK: 
Russia is an 
aging
, insecure
, former power determined to make a last stand before it is incapable of doing so. 
American disengagement from the global scene couldn’t have come at a better time
, but the reactivation of Russia’s traditional local foes couldn’t have come at a worse one.

IN A WORD: Panicked.

------------------------------------------------Germany’s Report Card (p 173)
BORDERS: 
There are few significant buffers between Germany and its western, eastern, and northern neighbors.
RESOURCES: 
The greatest concentration of 
wealth-generating navigable internal waterways in the world
, the most efficient manufacturing and production systems in the world
, and the best trained labor force in the world. 
But jack for actual physical resources.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Old! So very ooooold! 
One of the grayest and fastest-graying populations in the world
, Germany’s population is too old to consume the goods its industrial sector produces
, creating a dependency on exports.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Germany makes excellent tanks, diesel submarines, and electronic surveillance equipment. 
Unfortunately for Germany (but notPoland or Belgium or anyone else)
, decades of reliance on NATO and being hamstrung by the Second World War and the Cold War have left it a paper panzer.

ECONOMY: 
The entire German economy is predicated 
on leveraging its manufacturing sector to push high-quality exported goods to a globalized consumer base. 
In a post-Order world this will not work. At all.

OUTLOOK:
Few countries are more dependent on the American-led global Order. 
Germany’s best backup plan—the European Union—is already falling apart. 
Germany needs a new way of doing things. Or an old one.

IN A WORD: Outdated.

------------------------------------------------France’s Report Card (p 205)
BORDERS: 
France is the sole country on the Northern European Plain to have meaningful geographic boundaries: 
the Pyrenees, the Alps, the Northand Mediterranean Seas, and the Belgian Gap.

RESOURCES: 
The French have almost as good a riverine transport network as Germany, but it is in agriculture where France truly shines. 
The variety of microclimates makes France a world-class agricultural producer and exporter.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
The French boast the healthiest demography of industrialized Europe
, but unassimilated immigration from sub-Saharan Africa and the Arab world is a growing issue that will soon reach critical mass.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Paris learned its lessons during the World Wars, primarily to trust no one. 
The French maintain a military independent of NATO,an economy separate from the EU, and their very own nuclear deterrent.

ECONOMY: 
France is a significant producer both agricultural and industrial
,making it perhaps the most difficult EU member to negotiate trade deals with. 
While not an industrial producer on par with Germany (who is?),the French can make or grow most anything they need at home.

OUTLOOK: 
France is rarely number one, but it is almost always in the top five. 
When France’s neighbors struggle—as they are now—French power naturally rises.

IN A WORD: Finally!

------------------------------------------------Iran’s Report Card (p 219)
BORDERS: 
Iran is an arid, mountainous country surrounded by deserts and even more mountains. 
Invading Iran is therefore damnably difficult, but the same things that protect Iran also tend to stymie expansion.

RESOURCES: 
Iran’s mountains hold mining potential, but for over a century it’s been all about an overdependence upon oil, oil, oil.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Iran’s population is the largest in the Persian Gulf region
, but a crash in birthrates after the 1979 revolution makes Iranians much older than their peer Gulf Arab populations.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Iran has not one, but two armies. 
Both are fiercely loyal to the country’s ruling elite
, outfitted with primarily reworked Soviet matériel
, and are as likely to fire on domestic agitators as external armies.

ECONOMY: 
Oil exports form the country’s export basis
, distantly followed by low-grade industrial and agricultural products such as cheap steel,dates, pistachios, and carpets. 
All are subject to one of the strongest sanctions regimes in history. 
The economy is . . . struggling.

OUTLOOK: 
Cast in the role of troublemaker for four decades, Iran has recently experienced mammoth success in disrupting its foes. 
Now that Iran has more or less won regional leadership, it is woefully ill prepared to protect its gains.

IN A WORD: Winner?

------------------------------------------------Saudi Arabia’s Report Card (p 241)
BORDERS: 
Vast expanses of sand, some scraggly mountains, and shallow local seas . . . but mostly just the sand. 
Moving tanks or soldiers or supplies in and out of most of the Arabian Peninsula is simply a bitch of a task.

RESOURCES: 
Oil. Jihad. Sand. And oh so very much of all three.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Like much of the Persian Gulf
, the explosion of oil income in the latter half of the twentieth century enabled mass subsidies and a flood of foreign workers to do all the work
, freeing the Saudis to reproduce in air conditioning. 
During the past two decades, however,the economy has stalled somewhat, taking birthrates with it.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Saudi Arabia is one of the largest buyers of military equipment in the world, but much of it is operated by veterans of foreign militaries such as those of Pakistan and Egypt.
ECONOMY: 
Heavily oil-dependent. Oil sales make up 70 percent of state revenues.

OUTLOOK: 
Saudi Arabia is in the rare position of having the money
, military equipment
, and the will to position itself as a legitimate counterweight to Iran in a region long defined by American (mis)management.

IN A WORD: Arsonist.

------------------------------------------------Turkey’s Report Card (p 271)
BORDERS: 
Turkey itself is a mountainous peninsula that typifies an ugly house in a gorgeous neighborhood: 
Turkey bridges Europe and Asia, the Mediterranean and the Middle East, Russia and the West.

RESOURCES: 
Bad coal, the best agricultural lands in the Middle East
, but above all else the ability to control maritime trade between the Mediterranean and the Black Sea
, and land trade between Europe and southwestern Asia.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Turkey has a stable, relatively young population. 
Great for consumption-led growth and a future capital-and trade-driven move up the value chain.
Also good for political protests.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Turkey has the most capable army in Europe and the Middle East. 
Despite the military’s recent political weakening under the imposition of civilian authority, it retains plenty of pep to deal with any immediate neighbors.

ECONOMY: 
The Turkish economy has languished in recent years under extremely inexpert political intrusion into the country’s economic systems
, but the country’s position and population structure make it a growing manufacturing hub as well as the bright spot for the region’s future.

OUTLOOK: 
Turkey will always be smack dab in the middle of everything.
It’s relationships with outside powers may wax and wane, but it will always be the economic and military heavyweight of its region.

IN A WORD: Returned.

------------------------------------------------Brazil’s Report Card (p 295)
BORDERS: 
Jungles and mountains largely insulate Brazil from its neighbors
,few of which pose any significant military threat. 

Brazil’s real barrier is a break in elevation between its interior and its own coast
, which separates Brazil’s production zones from its primary population centers and ports.

RESOURCES: 
Minerals, coal, offshore oil and natural gas, and, with enough
investment, huge agricultural lands.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Brazil’s is the second-largest population in the Western Hemisphere
, but it’s aging several times faster than that of the United States
, Europe, or even East Asia.

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Brazil makes its own mid-grade fighter jets
, but the Brazilian army has had more experience storming drug dens and running local police forces than waging wars.

ECONOMY: 
With the second-largest economy in the Western Hemisphere
,Brazil is a major agricultural exporter that also produces aircraft
,automobiles, textiles, steel, and a swathe of low- to medium-value value-added goods.

OUTLOOK: 
Brazil owes its modern existence to globalization and the Order.
Without the foreign capital to fuel its infrastructure and agricultural sector
, without safe transport to send its beef and soy to customersaround the world
, Brazil will struggle to maintain its economy on its own.

IN A WORD: Nuts.
------------------------------------------------Argentina’s Report Card (p 316)
BORDERS: 
Argentina enjoys some of the most secure geography on the planet. 
The Andes to the west, and the Atlantic to the east. 
The only thing coming for Argentina are the Argentines themselves.

RESOURCES: 
Argentina boasts a near-dizzying array of mineral and agricultural wealth. 
It is a leading producer of beef, grain, soy, silver,copper, wine, oil, and natural gas.

DEMOGRAPHY: 
Unlike neighboring Brazil, Argentina enjoys a relatively young and healthy demographic profile. (Mass subsidies make babies.)

MILITARY MIGHT: 
Heh. No. A history of coups, mismanagement, and deliberate demilitarization makes the Argentine military a bit of a joke.
But Argentina’s safe frontiers and lackluster local competitors make military might unnecessary.

ECONOMY: 
Argentina’s economy is a textbook example
, literally, of how political decisions can stymie even near-perfect geographic advantages.
A unique, indigenous mix of nationalist-socialist-fascist policies have resulted 
in waves of massive inflation, capital flight, sovereign debt defaults . . . and yet, Argentina’s future remains bright.

OUTLOOK: 
Once a political ideology more conducive to . . . sanity takes hold, Argentina has everything it needs to dominate its neighborhood.

IN A WORD: Mulligan.